This is song 143, light in a darkened world.
Shines of light we can see of His own smile.
The attendance.
We're going to give you the combined attendance
at all of the venues, and it is a good figure.
21,689 are tied in with us today.
Please be seated.
An important announcement was recently made
to Bethel family's worldwide regarding a reduction
and simplification of our work at Bethel
and also in the field.
Now you may have heard something about it,
but what are the facts?
Well, we've invited the coordinator
of the publishing committee here,
and brother Samuel Hurd is going to read an announcement
that will clarify matters for us.
It was quite a trip getting over here
from broadcasting.
Not really, I came from the back here.
Here is the announcement.
On Wednesday, September the 23rd, 2015,
the worldwide Bethel family was informed
of a number of adjustments that are being made
in order to make the best use of dedicated funds.
At this time, we would like to make you
dear brothers and sisters aware of some
of these adjustments.
The governing body has directed that a number of our branch
and assembly hall construction projects
worldwide, be delayed, reduced in scope,
or in some cases, cancelled.
However, kingdom halls will continue to be built
or renovated in proportion to whatever the brothers
are able to contribute for this purpose.
In addition, all branches have been asked
to reduce the size of their Bethel family.
We will continue to support special pioneers
and temporary special pioneers in developing lands.
However, in more affluent countries,
where a large number of regular pioneers
are zealously engaged in the preaching work,
the number of temporary special pioneers
will be reduced significantly.
There will also be some reduction
in the number of special pioneers.
We feel sure that many regular pioneers
will be willing to move to the areas
where temporary special pioneers were formally assigned,
so that the kingdom work will continue unabated.
And no doubt some who were previously serving
as temporary special pioneers will be willing
to continue in their assignment as regular pioneers.
Please be assured that these adjustments
are not being made because of a lack
of financial support on your part.
Far from it, you have been very generous
in your support of the kingdom work.
And in your letters and cards,
you show a high level of spirituality
and great appreciation for all
that Jehovah is doing on behalf of his organization.
The response to JW.org to public witnessing,
to JW Broadcasting,
and the expanded use of videos
at the conventions this year,
has been simply overwhelming.
However, it must be acknowledged
that the kingdom work is expanding
at an accelerated pace,
and we can only do so much
with the funds at our disposal.
Every family had realizes that
where the household income is limited,
he must carefully budget available funds
so that his wife and children
will have the necessities of life.
Well, at Philippians chapter 1, verse 10,
we're told to make sure of the more important things.
In harmony with this wise advice,
we desire to give priority to those activities
that contribute the most to the spiritual welfare
of God's people and the advancement
of the global preaching work.
Consider, for example,
today's announcement that beginning in January,
our public magazines will be published by monthly.
There's no question that an abundance of spiritual food
has been produced,
so much in fact that many of our brothers
have found it difficult to keep up.
This adjustment will not only allow us
to use available funds effectively,
it will help our brothers to keep up
with our spiritual provisions.
We will be reducing personnel at Beth.
Some Bethel family members
will be invited to serve in the field.
In addition to their regular work,
Bethel family members will be caring
for many of the services that were previously provided
by fellow Bethelites.
The response of the Bethel families
to these adjustments has been heartwarming.
We love them for it,
and we love you too.
Please make all of these adjustments
a matter of prayer.
Major Hovea continued to bless each one of you
for the love you show for his name,
with every good wish your brothers,
governing body.
The next talk by Garrett Lurch
has a very generic title.
It's talk on 2016 year text.
I guess Garrett doesn't want to give anything away.
We'll have to listen.
John 316 says,
God loved the world so much
that He gave His only begotten son
so that everyone exercising faith in him
might not be destroyed,
but have everlasting life.
The world that God loved
included atheists and enemies of God.
In line with this,
Jesus said in Matthew 544-45,
continue to love your enemies
and to pray for those who persecute you
so that you may prove yourselves
sons of your father who is in the heavens.
But how are we to love our enemies?
We don't need to have a faction for them,
but we need to show principled love,
agape in Greek,
Romans 12.20 says,
if your enemy is hungry,
feed him,
give him something to drink.
If we are to love our enemies,
are we not to love even much more our brothers?
Aside from love for relatives in Greek,
Christians need to display
four types of love toward the brothers.
The first type of love is based on principles.
Greek agape,
and the verb to it is agapau.
The noun agape appears more frequently
than the other terms.
Agape carries the meaning of love guided by principles,
true or false.
Agape does not include affection.
Actually, the answer is,
have true and have false.
Agape may or may not include affection and fondness,
depending on the circumstances.
A second type of love is expressed by a verb in Greek,
and that is filio.
It refers to having affection,
being fond of a friend or an object.
The related noun is filia,
but this word occurs only once in the Greek scriptures,
saying that one should not have filia or love for the world.
James 4 verse 4.
Let us now consider some examples of affection.
Jesus felt affection for his friend Lazarus,
so he gave way to tears
when standing in front of Lazarus' tomb.
John 11, 35, 36.
In Proverbs 831,
Jesus in his pre-human existence
said he was especially fond of mankind.
This relationship existed also
and still exists between Jehovah and Jesus.
At John 335,
we learned that Jehovah feels love agape for his son,
but his feelings are not limited to that type of love.
In John 520, Jesus said the Father has affection for the son.
Certainly, God's agape love for Jesus Christ
is coupled with much affection.
Our love for our brother should likewise also extend
beyond mere agape love.
We should develop affection for each.
Twice, Jesus asked Peter if he loved him,
using the verb agapeau.
Both times Peter earnestly affirmed
that he had affection for Jesus using the more intimate word filio,
according to John 21 verses 15 through 17.
How could Peter show his affection for Jesus?
Well, something more than a mere inner feeling was needed.
Peter could prove his affection by shepherding the sheep.
Jesus said, initiative is action is proof of affection.
It's true in John 13, 35, Jesus said,
by this all will know that you are my disciples
if you have love among yourselves.
And here he used the word agape.
But it is not enough to have agape for our brothers.
Why?
Well, it is not so difficult to show agape love for all brothers,
but it is difficult to have affection for all brothers.
It might be challenging to show affection.
One reason is because some have personality traits
that we find difficult to tolerate.
Perhaps one has the habit of engaging in negative gossip
or complaints about many things.
As imperfect humans, all of us need to work on developing
not only agape love, but also affection for all of our brothers.
But even affection is not quite enough.
With that in mind, what other form of love do we need to display?
We need to feel tender affection.
In Romans chapter 12 verse 10,
the word philostargos is used, and it means more than affection.
In Greek, it means tender affection.
According to the inside book, volume 1 page 55.
And the Apostle Paul encouraged Christians
to cultivate this quality, tender affection.
The fourth important type of love that we need to have as Christians
is Philadelphia or brotherly affection.
In Hebrews chapter 13 verse 1, this is mentioned.
It says there,
let your brotherly love continue.
Jehovah commands according to 1 Peter 3, 8.
Finally, all of you have unity of mind, fellow feeling,
brotherly affection, tender compassion and humility.
And this refers to a strong attachment.
Brotherly affection existed between David and Jonathan.
It existed between Ruth and Naomi.
In the first century, it existed among true Christians.
Christians in Jerusalem and in the Roman province Judea
faced very difficult times.
Jesus warned them that the Roman armies would insert the city and attack it.
This happened in the year 66 of our common era.
Christians needed to be alert as to an opportunity to flee the city and the province.
This opportunity came when, for unknown reasons,
the Roman army general Sestius Gallus withdrew the attack.
Fleeing meant that those Christians had to leave behind their houses,
their businesses, and all their possessions.
Those who promptly obeyed and fled to the other side of the Jordan were saved.
Fleeing in such a hurry and leaving possessions behind,
there was an need for Christians to share with one another,
what little they had been able to take along on the trip.
Those who would travel in small groups would certainly share whatever food or water they had on hand.
In Matthew 24, 21, Jesus described those days as a time of great tribulation.
This period of the great tribulation against Jerusalem lasted a few years
from 66 of our common era to the year 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed by another Roman army.
The great tribulation in the first century foreshadowed the great tribulation
that is to come on the entire system of things in our day,
culminating with the divine war that the Bible refers to as Armageddon in Revelation 16, verse 16.
We do not know how long the great tribulation will last in our time,
but there will be, according to the Watchtower 99,
May 1, page 12, and, quote, initial face and a final face,
but also an interval between these.
The great tribulation will start with the destruction of all's religion
when the angels will unleash the four winds of destruction as prophesied in Revelation 7, verses 1 and 2.
Jesus said, in the first century, flesh, referring to His disciples, would be saved.
Matthew 24 verse 22.
In our time, God's people will also be saved.
They will be saved twice.
First, when political elements will destroy all false religious institutions,
but God's people will also survive and will be saved the second time
at the culmination of the great tribulation sometime later.
Revelation 7, 14 says that they will come out of the great tribulation,
pointing to their survival.
Before and during the great tribulation,
brotherly affection, Philadelphia, will help us to survive.
Added to this, I think of the serious economic situation, many find themselves in already today.
In some countries, our brothers only can afford to have just one meal a day.
Today, as Jesus told, the love of most people in the world has cooled off,
whereas our love for one another keeps growing, it becomes more and more intense.
We apply the counsel in Hebrews 131,
let your brotherly love, or Philadelphia, continue.
Even if we display that love now, we need to continue displaying it.
In what specific ways can we let our brotherly love continue?
We can look at the context if you go back to Hebrews 13 and verse 2,
it says, do not forget hospitality.
Well, what does it mean?
Do not invite just close friends.
Keep in mind that there is no need for an elaborate meal,
coffee and cake would do it also, and it could be good coffee and good cake.
But showing hospitality to others is not just in order to have fun.
It is about getting to know each other, having spiritual conversations
and growing in love for one another.
We commend warmly also the many sisters that show brotherly love.
Well, in that case, we could say sisterly love through hospitality.
Thank you very much.
Now, in the next verse, verse 3, Paul says,
among other things, keep in mind those in prison.
We can do so by fervent prayers in their behalf.
We can pray for our brothers in South Korea, for example, or in Eritrea,
where some are imprisoned already for 20 years,
and we can pray for those who live in dictatorial countries.
In verse 4, Paul goes on to say, let marriage be honorable among all.
Well, what does that mean?
Well, we do not want to go beyond the proper limits of chased behavior
when dealing with those of the opposite sex, not our mate,
not becoming overly familiar with them.
Here's another point about keeping marriage honorable.
Would it show affection to ones made to secretly watch pornography?
Today, this harmful practice is engaged in not only by men,
but now by millions of women, teenagers, adults, married, and single ones.
In 2003 already, the plain dealer newspaper of Cleveland, Ohio,
in the USA said, and I quote,
in recent years, the accessibility, affordability, and anonymity of the Internet,
have made pornography undeniably attractive to millions of women.
Nearly one in three visitors to adult websites is a woman.
142-year-old mother was found to spend up to 30 hours a week surfing the web for arousal.
End of quote.
Now if we go on and what Paul says in chapter 13,
and verse 5, he says, among other things, be content with the present things.
Our relationship with our brothers is worth more than any material processions.
A Christian will therefore neither envy a fellow Christian,
nor try to cheat him in a business matter.
To the contrary, he will show a generous spirit toward those in need
according to his own means as 1 Corinthians 162 encourages.
An inverse 6, Paul goes on to say, be of good courage.
Well, what does this have to do with brotherly love?
Well, if we are of good courage, we will be better able to encourage those
who are depressed and have to deal with problems.
Verse 7, remember those who are taking the lead.
We want to show Philadelphia towards elders and traveling overseers,
or responsible brothers in Bethel or at the construction site.
Let's consider what the first Thessalonians says,
and verse chapter 5 verse 13.
It says, we could start reading in verse 12.
Now we request your brothers to show respect for those who are working hard among you
and are presiding over you in the Lord and admonishing you
and to give them extraordinary consideration in love
because of their work.
To give the elders consideration is not enough.
To give them extraordinary consideration also is not enough.
Because what does the Scripture say?
We are to give them extraordinary consideration in love.
We need to get to the point of love our overseers
and not just to obey them or to respect them.
The Greek word that is used here, according to the Kingdom Interlinear translation,
has the rendering super abundantly.
And certainly this is an area where we want to grow and show more love for our overseers.
We show Philadelphia or brotherly love or affection also in times of persecution.
Romans 12, 13 says, share with the holy ones according to their needs.
And when there is a time of persecution there is more need to share with one another,
share material things.
He was not talking about sharing the good news because he said share with the holy ones
that those who were already in the truth, brothers, share with the brothers, material things.
An example is from modern times what happened in Nazi concentration camps.
Brothers followed that principle.
It was very touching to see brothers or those themselves marked for death
to give some of their scan bread ratios to those having a harder time than they themselves had.
Often it was just crumbs that they secretly hit under the pillow of those who for some reason or another
had not been given enough or anything sometimes to eat and who had sometimes been forced
to stand out in the courtyard in the fears cold with hardly anything on.
They really showed brotherly affection.
Another point.
We show brotherly affection also in everyday life.
We don't have to wait until we are imprisoned.
We can share material things with those in need whether it's food, clothing or money.
We also show brotherly love or affection in times of disasters.
Many brothers are affected by tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, volcanic eruptions,
or by opposition and governmental persecution or ban.
In December 1999 there was a terrible landslide in Venezuela,
caused by heavy rains.
Many homes were swept down a mountain called El Avila.
According to one estimate some 50,000 people may have died.
And 400,000 were rendered homeless.
For good reasons it was termed the worst natural disaster in Venezuela's history.
Brothers lost their home.
Did they have to stay overnight in the open?
No.
Our brothers gladly took them in.
Even long after the disaster people had friends and relatives living with them until accommodations were built for them.
Well and Elsa witnesses in Puerto Cabello live in a small apartment.
A month after the disaster they still had 16 living there with them.
16 brothers and sisters imagine that.
Would we be willing to take in 16 impoverished brothers for several weeks,
willing to take them into our homes, though perhaps not having sufficient bath and toilet facilities for so many?
We trust you would do that. Why?
Because brotherly love or affection is not just a feeling perhaps expressed by hugging.
Brotherly love and affection is shown by initiative, by action.
There's no doubt that Jehovah's people are known for their brotherly affection.
In 1 Peter 122 we read love one another intensely from the heart.
In 1 Thessalonians 4, 9 and 10 says,
however, concerning brotherly love or brotherly affection,
you do not need us to write to you, as the Apostle Paul, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another.
Also through this program Jehovah teaches us to love one another.
It can be learned. But then Paul went on to urge all to go on doing so in fuller measure.
Can we do so in fuller measure?
Can we be more hospitable? Can we pray more for those in prison?
We determine not to watch pornography because doing so would show lack of love for one's mate.
Are we refraining from envying our brothers for things that they own or privileges that they enjoy?
Are we able to strengthen and comfort our brothers more because we ourselves are of good courage?
Can we develop more brotherly affection for the elders rather than just respecting and obeying them?
Why is it so important to continue to show brotherly love for one another?
First John 4, 20 and 21. We can read that from the Scriptures.
It gives the answer. First John, chapter 4, 20 and 21.
If anyone says, I love God and yet is hating his brother, he is a liar.
For the one who lists the main point here, for the one who does not love his brother,
whom he has seen cannot love God, whom he has not seen.
And we have this commandment from him that whoever loves God must also love his brother.
In spite of the many problems that we are facing now and perhaps in the future may face many more problems,
each one of us can be confident of Jehovah's love for us, provided that we ourselves continue to love our brothers intensely from the heart and with tender brotherly affection.
In line with this, for the 2016 year, the text or year text was chosen,
let your brotherly love continue. Hebrews 13, 1.
In addition to the 2016 year text, the governing body is pleased to share several announcements with you at this time.
The first one, delighted to release a new 224-page publication entitled,
What Can the Bible Teach Us? It's based on the current, what does the Bible really teach?
Book, this new teach us, in the short form, teach us, book does not replace the Bible Teach Book.
Rather, it will be useful when studying with individuals who need to have the truth presented in a simpler form.
At the same time, teach us is not just a simplification of the text but has the following additional features.
For one, at the end of every chapter is a two-page summary that replaces the review box of the Bible Teach Book.
These summaries can also be used to conduct Bible studies.
Another point, int notes, replace the appendix of the Bible Teach Book.
The int notes correlate closely with the glossary of the revised New World translation.
The int notes clarify some expressions that we as Jehovah's Witnesses use in our everyday conversation,
but many may not be familiar with it, people of the public.
The teacher's book will no doubt be a useful tool to help people gain a basic understanding of Bible truth,
similar to the way the Bible Teach Book is used.
The goal is to help individuals to dedicate their life to Jehovah based on an accurate knowledge of Jehovah's will.
What can the Bible Teach us will be available on JW.org Watchtower Online Library and JW Library later this afternoon.
A limited supply of printed copies will be available at various distribution points or locations following the conclusion of the program.
Second announcement. The book organized to do Jehovah's will was released in 2005.
The purpose of this book is to make clear what is involved in pleasing God and to provide an overview of how the Christian congregation is organized for getting God's work done.
Over the past 10 years, there have been a number of significant refinements in the way that the work is organized as well as adjustments in terminology and in the way our meetings are conducted.
Therefore, it is our pleasure to announce the release of the revised edition of organized to do Jehovah's will.
Well, later this afternoon, the revised edition of the organized book will be available on JW.org and the latest version of JW Library.
A limited supply of printed copies will be also available at the rear of the auditorium following the concluding prayer.
This was one pocket, second pocket. Well, what do you think? There's a third announcement. Well, for the next announcement, please watch the following video.
Revised edition of the New World Translation.
Most of us can remember that exciting moment in 2013, but it didn't stop there.
In addition to receiving our regular edition of the new Bible, it was also announced that there would be released a large size edition, a pocket size edition, and a study edition of the revised New World Translation.
We're now in 2015, and we may be wondering, where is the study edition?
We are happy to announce that the first book of this new edition, the Gospel of Matthew, is now completed and will be released later today, October 3, 2015.
This online edition will be released on our website one book at a time.
The other Bible books will be released over the coming years.
Designed with a user-friendly interface similar to RJW Library App, this edition includes unique features to help you enjoy a deeper study of God's Word.
A key feature of this new edition is the study notes. These notes provide cultural, geographic, and linguistic insight into many Bible verses.
Also listed are parallel events associated with key verses.
Additionally, each Bible book will have a multimedia section containing images and a video that introduces the book.
Would you like to see this introductory video?
An introduction to the book of Matthew.
Matthew was working as a tax collector and cavernium when he was invited by Jesus to become a disciple.
Later, after the Passover of 31 CE, he was also chosen as one of the twelve apostles.
Matthew personally witnessed most of Jesus' three-and-a-half-year ministry.
And around the year of 41 CE, he was the first to write an account of Jesus' life and teachings.
His account would eventually become one of the four Bible books, along with Mark, Luke, and John, known as the Gospels.
The book of Matthew focuses on the time period between 2 BCE and 33 CE.
It includes events just before Jesus' birth and ends with Jesus' command to go make disciples.
Did you know? Although Matthew is the first book of the Christian Greek scriptures, there is evidence that it was originally written in Hebrew.
Some time later, Matthew himself may have translated his gospel into Greek.
The book has been divided into 28 chapters.
In the first 18 chapters, much of the content is arranged by subject, focusing on the teachings found in Jesus' public discourses.
Starting in chapter 19, however, Matthew turns his attention to the last days of Jesus' ministry and generally relates the events in the order that they happened.
About 40% of Matthew's gospel is unique, describing events and details not found in the other three gospels.
It begins with Abraham, and lists the family line of Jesus through his adoptive father Joseph, proving that Jesus is the legal heir of King David.
It provides a thorough account of Jesus' sermon on the mount, and it also includes many of Jesus' illustrations, such as the wheat and the weeds, the pearl of high value, and the dragnet.
Matthew's account greatly emphasizes that the theme of Jesus' teaching was the kingdom of the heavens.
To help readers identify Jesus as the promised Messiah, this book includes numerous direct quotes and references from many books in the Hebrew scriptures.
No wonder Matthew has been described as a bridge between the Hebrew and Christian Greek scriptures.
As you enjoy your study of Matthew, note how the gospel establishes Jesus' legal right to David's throne, emphasize his Christ teachings, and highlights God's kingdom.
This is just a sampling of the thrilling new features contained in this publication.
It is our hope that this new study edition of the Bible will draw you even closer to our Heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
This study edition of the Book of Matthew will be available later today on JW.org, go to the publications tab and select Bible.
At a later time, it will also be available on the JW Library application.